README.md, before:

Cronutils
========

This tool is designed to simplify the configuration and dispatching of tasks via
cron, as well as to give nicely formatted error reports by email.

It can be installed by pip:

```
pip install cronutils
```

For the email error reporting to work properly, this project depends on cronic:
http://habilis.net/cronic/

On ubuntu, one can use the following set of installs:
```
sudo apt-get install sendmail mailutils moreutils
```

# Project Setup

To use this project, put a file called cron.py at the top level of your project:

```python
from sys import argv
from cronutils import run_tasks

FIVE_MINUTES = "five_minutes"
HOURLY = "hourly"
FOUR_HOURLY = "four_hourly"
DAILY = "daily"
WEEKLY = "weekly"
MONTHLY = "monthly"

TASKS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: [],
    HOURLY: [],
    FOUR_HOURLY: [],
    DAILY: [],
    WEEKLY: [],
    MONTHLY: [],
}

TIME_LIMITS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: 180, # 3 minutes
    HOURLY: 3600,      # 60 minutes
    FOUR_HOURLY: 5400, # 1.5 hours
    DAILY: 43200,      # 12 hours
    WEEKLY: 86400,     # 1 day
    MONTHLY: 259200,   # 3 days
}


if __name__ == "__main__":
    if len(argv) <= 1:
        raise Exception("Not enough arguments to cron\n")
    elif argv[1] in TASKS:
        cron_type = argv[1]
        run_tasks(TASKS[cron_type], TIME_LIMITS[cron_type], cron_type)
    else:
        raise Exception("Invalid argument to cron\n")
```


Then, add the following to your cron config, modifying `MAILTO` and
`PROJECT_PATH` appropriately:

```
PROJECT_PATH="/path/to/project_name"
MAILTO="user@example.com,user2@example.com"

# m h  dom mon dow   command
*/5 * * * * : five_minutes; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py five_minutes
0 */1 * * * : hourly; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py hourly
30 */4 * * * : four_hourly; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py four_hourly
15 0 * * * : daily; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py daily
0 2 * * 0 : weekly; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py weekly
15 1 1 * * : monthly; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py monthly
```

NOTE: if you don't want error emails, remove the `MAILTO` line from your config

NOTE: The above config only works if you are using Vixie cron (the default on
ubuntu/debain).  If you are on a different version of cron, replace
each instance of `$PROJECT_PATH` with the actual project path rather than setting
the variable at the top

For any functions you want to run, import them in cron.py and put the function
name in the appropriate list.  For example, to run the functions `backup_database`
and `send_server_info` daily, you would do:

```python
from package.path import backup_database
from other_package.path import send_server_info

...

TASKS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: [],
    HOURLY: [],
    FOUR_HOURLY: [],
    DAILY: [backup_database, send_server_info],
    WEEKLY: [],
    MONTHLY: [],
}

...
```

# Error Aggregation

Then, within any task you want cron to run on, you can get batched error reports
using the error handler like so:

```python
from cronutils import ErrorHandler

def some_daily_task():
    error_handler = ErrorHandler()
    for i in range(1024):
        with error_handler:
            do_dangerous_code()
    error_handler.raise_errors()
```

Any errors generated in the with block will be aggregated by stacktrace, so if
there are errors, you will get a report that looks like this:

```
===============
OCCURRED 924 TIMES:
IndexError('list index out of range',)
  File "some_file.py", line 3, in some_daily_task
    do_dangerous_code()
  File "some_file.py", line 5, in do_dangerous_code
    some_list[i]
===============
```

# Sentry Integration

The ErrorHandler also integrates with the [Sentry](https://sentry.io/)
error management service.  You can access this by importing ErrorSentry and using
it as you would the regular ErrorHandler.  When your code encounters an error 
ErrorSentry will send a report to your Sentry account. You must provide it the with a
full, valid [Sentry DSN](https://docs.sentry.io/quickstart/#configure-the-dsn).

If you want to customize the Sentry client you can pass it extra keyword arguments
at instantiation (see example below). You can also access the client directly
if you want to further interact with it, for example by providing additional
[context](https://docs.sentry.io/learn/context/).

```python
from cronutils import ErrorSentry

# Simplest instantiation
error_sentry = ErrorSentry(sentry_dsn=MY_DSN)

# Complex configuration
error_sentry = ErrorSentry(sentry_dsn=MY_DSN,
                           sentry_client_kwargs=SENTRY_CLIENT_KWARGS)

error_sentry.sentry_client.client.user_context({
        'email': request.user.email
    })

```

# Kill Times

The time limit of tasks specified in TIME_LIMITS is for emailing you about tasks that take longer than expected to run.
If a task takes over four times the time limit (see MAX_TIME_MULTIPLIER), the process of that task is killed. You can
specify your own custom kill time by passing in param `kill_time` to `run_tasks`. For example, here is an alternate
`cron.py` that specifies custom kill times:

```python
from sys import argv
from cronutils import run_tasks

FIVE_MINUTES = "five_minutes"
HOURLY = "hourly"
FOUR_HOURLY = "four_hourly"
DAILY = "daily"
WEEKLY = "weekly"
MONTHLY = "monthly"

TASKS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: [],
    HOURLY: [],
    FOUR_HOURLY: [],
    DAILY: [],
    WEEKLY: [],
    MONTHLY: [],
}

TIME_LIMITS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: 180, # 3 minutes
    HOURLY: 3600,      # 60 minutes
    FOUR_HOURLY: 5400, # 1.5 hours
    DAILY: 43200,      # 12 hours
    WEEKLY: 86400,     # 1 day
    MONTHLY: 259200,   # 3 days
}

KILL_TIMES = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: 300, # 5 minutes
    HOURLY: 3600, # 1 hour
}


if __name__ == "__main__":
    if len(argv) <= 1:
        raise Exception("Not enough arguments to cron\n")
    elif argv[1] in TASKS:
        cron_type = argv[1]
        if cron_type in KILL_TIMES:
            run_tasks(TASKS[cron_type], TIME_LIMITS[cron_type], cron_type, KILL_TIMES[cron_type])
        else:
            run_tasks(TASKS[cron_type], TIME_LIMITS[cron_type], cron_type)
    else:
        raise Exception("Invalid argument to cron\n")
```

Commit message:

[sentry_throttling] updates readme for error sentry limiting.

README.md, after:

Cronutils
========

This tool is designed to simplify the configuration and dispatching of tasks via
cron, as well as to give nicely formatted error reports by email.

It can be installed by pip:

```
pip install cronutils
```

For the email error reporting to work properly, this project depends on cronic:
http://habilis.net/cronic/

On ubuntu, one can use the following set of installs:
```
sudo apt-get install sendmail mailutils moreutils
```

# Project Setup

To use this project, put a file called cron.py at the top level of your project:

```python
from sys import argv
from cronutils import run_tasks

FIVE_MINUTES = "five_minutes"
HOURLY = "hourly"
FOUR_HOURLY = "four_hourly"
DAILY = "daily"
WEEKLY = "weekly"
MONTHLY = "monthly"

TASKS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: [],
    HOURLY: [],
    FOUR_HOURLY: [],
    DAILY: [],
    WEEKLY: [],
    MONTHLY: [],
}

TIME_LIMITS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: 180, # 3 minutes
    HOURLY: 3600,      # 60 minutes
    FOUR_HOURLY: 5400, # 1.5 hours
    DAILY: 43200,      # 12 hours
    WEEKLY: 86400,     # 1 day
    MONTHLY: 259200,   # 3 days
}


if __name__ == "__main__":
    if len(argv) <= 1:
        raise Exception("Not enough arguments to cron\n")
    elif argv[1] in TASKS:
        cron_type = argv[1]
        run_tasks(TASKS[cron_type], TIME_LIMITS[cron_type], cron_type)
    else:
        raise Exception("Invalid argument to cron\n")
```


Then, add the following to your cron config, modifying `MAILTO` and
`PROJECT_PATH` appropriately:

```
PROJECT_PATH="/path/to/project_name"
MAILTO="user@example.com,user2@example.com"

# m h  dom mon dow   command
*/5 * * * * : five_minutes; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py five_minutes
0 */1 * * * : hourly; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py hourly
30 */4 * * * : four_hourly; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py four_hourly
15 0 * * * : daily; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py daily
0 2 * * 0 : weekly; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py weekly
15 1 1 * * : monthly; cd $PROJECT_PATH; chronic python cron.py monthly
```

NOTE: if you don't want error emails, remove the `MAILTO` line from your config

NOTE: The above config only works if you are using Vixie cron (the default on
ubuntu/debain).  If you are on a different version of cron, replace
each instance of `$PROJECT_PATH` with the actual project path rather than setting
the variable at the top

For any functions you want to run, import them in cron.py and put the function
name in the appropriate list.  For example, to run the functions `backup_database`
and `send_server_info` daily, you would do:

```python
from package.path import backup_database
from other_package.path import send_server_info

...

TASKS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: [],
    HOURLY: [],
    FOUR_HOURLY: [],
    DAILY: [backup_database, send_server_info],
    WEEKLY: [],
    MONTHLY: [],
}

...
```

# Error Aggregation

Then, within any task you want cron to run on, you can get batched error reports
using the error handler like so:

```python
from cronutils import ErrorHandler

def some_daily_task():
    error_handler = ErrorHandler()
    for i in range(1024):
        with error_handler:
            do_dangerous_code()
    error_handler.raise_errors()
```

Any errors generated in the with block will be aggregated by stacktrace, so if
there are errors, you will get a report that looks like this:

```
===============
OCCURRED 924 TIMES:
IndexError('list index out of range',)
  File "some_file.py", line 3, in some_daily_task
    do_dangerous_code()
  File "some_file.py", line 5, in do_dangerous_code
    some_list[i]
===============
```

# Sentry Integration

The ErrorHandler also integrates with the [Sentry](https://sentry.io/)
error management service.  You can access this by importing ErrorSentry and using
it as you would the regular ErrorHandler.  When your code encounters an error 
ErrorSentry will send a report to your Sentry account. You must provide it the with a
full, valid [Sentry DSN](https://docs.sentry.io/quickstart/#configure-the-dsn).

If you want to customize the Sentry client you can pass it extra keyword arguments
at instantiation (see example below). You can also access the client directly
if you want to further interact with it, for example by providing additional
[context](https://docs.sentry.io/learn/context/).

```python
from cronutils import ErrorSentry

# Simplest instantiation
error_sentry = ErrorSentry(sentry_dsn=MY_DSN)

# Complex configuration
error_sentry = ErrorSentry(sentry_dsn=MY_DSN,
                           sentry_client_kwargs=SENTRY_CLIENT_KWARGS)

error_sentry.sentry_client.client.user_context({
        'email': request.user.email
    })

```
ErrorSentry also has an optional `sentry_report_limit` parameter that limits the number of times a specific error will
be reported. Note that errors are counted based on their stack trace, so there are conditions under which you will
still receive multiple similar error reports. Error counts are per-ErrorSentry object, they not global.


# Kill Times

The time limit of tasks specified in TIME_LIMITS is for emailing you about tasks that take longer than expected to run.
If a task takes over four times the time limit (see MAX_TIME_MULTIPLIER), the process of that task is killed. You can
specify your own custom kill time by passing in param `kill_time` to `run_tasks`. For example, here is an alternate
`cron.py` that specifies custom kill times:

```python
from sys import argv
from cronutils import run_tasks

FIVE_MINUTES = "five_minutes"
HOURLY = "hourly"
FOUR_HOURLY = "four_hourly"
DAILY = "daily"
WEEKLY = "weekly"
MONTHLY = "monthly"

TASKS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: [],
    HOURLY: [],
    FOUR_HOURLY: [],
    DAILY: [],
    WEEKLY: [],
    MONTHLY: [],
}

TIME_LIMITS = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: 180, # 3 minutes
    HOURLY: 3600,      # 60 minutes
    FOUR_HOURLY: 5400, # 1.5 hours
    DAILY: 43200,      # 12 hours
    WEEKLY: 86400,     # 1 day
    MONTHLY: 259200,   # 3 days
}

KILL_TIMES = {
    FIVE_MINUTES: 300, # 5 minutes
    HOURLY: 3600, # 1 hour
}


if __name__ == "__main__":
    if len(argv) <= 1:
        raise Exception("Not enough arguments to cron\n")
    elif argv[1] in TASKS:
        cron_type = argv[1]
        if cron_type in KILL_TIMES:
            run_tasks(TASKS[cron_type], TIME_LIMITS[cron_type], cron_type, KILL_TIMES[cron_type])
        else:
            run_tasks(TASKS[cron_type], TIME_LIMITS[cron_type], cron_type)
    else:
        raise Exception("Invalid argument to cron\n")
```
